Portable Systems Group

NTÂ OS/2 IRP Language Definition

Author: Gary D. Kimura

Revision 1.0x, December 15, 1989

.Begin Table C.

1. Introduction 1

2. Valid IRP combination 2

2.1 Disk Driver IRPs 2

2.2 File System IRPs 3

2.3 Keyboard Driver IRPs 5

2.4 Mouse Driver IRPs 5

2.5 Network Drivers IRPs 6

2.6 Sound Driver IRPs 6

2.7 Tape Driver IRPs 6

2.8 Terminal Driver IRPs 6

2.9 Video Driver IRPs 6

3. IRP Function Descriptions 8

3.1 Close 8

3.2 Create 11

3.3 Device Control 19

3.4 Directory Control(Notify Change Directory) 19

3.5 Directory Control(Query Directory) 19

3.6 File System Control(Dismount Volume) 19

3.7 File System Control(Lock Volume) 19

3.8 File System Control(Mount Volume) 19

3.9 File System Control(Query Information File System) 19

3.10 File System Control(Set Information File System) 19

3.11 File System Control(Unlock Volume) 19

3.12 File System Control(Verify Volume) 19

3.13 Internal Device Control 19

3.14 Lock Control(Lock) 19

3.15 Lock Control(Unlock All) 19

3.16 Lock Control(Unlock Single) 20

3.17 Query Acl 20

3.18 Query Ea 20

3.19 Query Information 20

3.20 Query Volume Information 20

3.21 Read 20

3.22 Read Terminal 20

3.23 Set Acl 20

3.24 Set Ea 20

3.25 Set Information 20

3.26 Set New Size 20

3.27 Set Volume Information 20

3.28 Write 20

.End Table C.

1. Introduction

The purpose of this chapter is to define the semantic contents of an I/O
Request Packet (IRP). The information contained here is intended for use
mainly by Device Driver and File System developers. The I/O system sends
to the various Device Drivers[1] a stream of multiple IRPs that the
drivers must interpret and respond to. Figure 1 shows the relationship
between the device driver and the I/O system. Communication between the
I/O system and the Device Driver is through IRPs. This chapter
concentrates on the IRP language.

  +--------+ +--------+ +--------+
  | | | | | |
  | User | NtCall | I/O | Irp | Device |
  | |---------->| System |---------->| Driver |
  | | | | | |
  +--------+ +--------+ +--------+
  Figure 1
  Logical control flow from user to Device Driver

Each IRP has a well defined format and semantic meaning, and the order
in which they are sent must adhere to certain rules. The ordering of
IRPs and responses form a context sensitive language.

Each IRP contains a common header section followed by one or more
function specific records (also called IRP stack locations). From a
Device Drivers viewpoint each IRP request is a single record describing
one function to perform. That is, the drivers only interpret one
function specific record. The additional stack locations are for use
when a driver issues subsequent IRPs to a lower level driver and wishes
to reuse the original IRP.

Each IRP function is identified by a major and minor function field in
the IRP stack location record. The list of possible function
combinations are listed below. Each line lists a major function code
followed (in paranthesis) by a minor function code. Note that some major
functions (e.g., CREATE) do not make use the minor function field.

CLOSE()
CONFIGURATION_CONTROL(...)
CREATE()
DEVICE_CONTROL(...)
DIRECTORY_CONTROL(NOTIFY_CHANGE_DIRECTORY)
DIRECTORY_CONTROL(QUERY_DIRECTORY)
FILE_SYSTEM_CONTROL(DISMOUNT_VOLUME)
FILE_SYSTEM_CONTROL(LOCK_VOLUME)
FILE_SYSTEM_CONTROL(MOUNT_VOLUME)
FILE_SYSTEM_CONTROL(QUERY_INFO_FILE_SYSTEM)
FILE_SYSTEM_CONTROL(SET_INFO_FILE_SYSTEM)
FILE_SYSTEM_CONTROL(UNLOCK_VOLUME)
FILE_SYSTEM_CONTROL(VERIFY_VOLUME)
INTERNAL_DEVICE_CONTROL(...)
LOCK_CONTROL(LOCK)
LOCK_CONTROL(UNLOCK_ALL)
LOCK_CONTROL(UNLOCK_SINGLE)
QUERY_ACL()
QUERY_EA()
QUERY_INFORMATION()
QUERY_VOLUME_INFORMATION()
READ()
READ_TERMINAL()
SET_ACL()
SET_EA()
SET_INFORMATION()
SET_NEW_SIZE()
SET_VOLUME_INFORMATION()
WRITE()

/* We need to define the minor function codes for the configuration,
device, and internal device function codes. */

Each Device Driver will only receive a combination of the preceding
function codes based on the drivers device type. This means that a file
system device driver can expect to receive different functions than the
keyboard device driver, or a disk driver. The possible device driver
types are:

Disk Driver,
File System (including network redirector),
Keyboard Driver,
Mouse Driver,
Network Drivers,
Sound Driver,
Tape Driver,
Terminal Driver, and
Video Driver,

/* We will need to futher expand on the different network device drivers
*/

The remainder of this chapter describes the valid combination of IRP
function codes that each different device driver can expect to receive.
This is followed by a section listing every IRP function code along with
a description of the function's parameters, semantics, and I/O
completion status codes.

2. Valid IRP Function Combinations

The section contains an individual table for each device driver type
that lists the set of valid IRP functions that can be sent to the driver
and under what conditions the functions are sent.

2.1 Disk Driver IRPs

The set of possible IRPs that can be sent to a disk driver are:

  --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- --
  IRP Function                      When sent                           

  CLOSE                             Anytime.                            

  CREATE                            Anytime.                            

  DEVICE_CONTROL                    Anytime.                            
  (...)                                                                 

  READ                              Anytime.                            

  WRITE                             Anytime.                            
  --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- --

2.2 File System IRPs

The set of possible IRPs that can be sent to a file system are:

  --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- --
  IRP Function                      When sent                           

  CLOSE                             Only after a successful CREATE and  
                                    then only on an opened file. This   
                                    closes the file so no other         
                                    operation can be performed on the   
                                    file other than CREATE.             

  CREATE                            Only after a successful             
                                    MOUNT_VOLUME and then only on a     
                                    mounted volume that is not locked.  
                                    If successful the file is           
                                    considered opened.                  

  DIRECTORY_CONTROL                 Only after a successful CREATE and  
  (NOTIFY_CHANGE_DIRECTORY)         then only on an opened directory    
                                    file.                               

  DIRECTORY_CONTROL                 Only after a successful CREATE and  
  (QUERY_DIRECTORY)                 then only on an opened directory    
                                    file.                               

  FILE_SYSTEM_CONTROL               Only after a successful             
  (DISMOUNT_VOLUME)                 MOUNT_VOLUME and then only on a     
                                    mounted volume. This dismounts the  
                                    volume, so no other operation can   
                                    be performed on the volume other    
                                    than MOUNT_VOLUME.                  

  FILE_SYSTEM_CONTROL               Only after a successful CREATE and  
  (LOCK_VOLUME)                     then only on an opened file. This   
                                    locks the volume containing the     
                                    file such that no other creates     
                                    using the same volume will succeed  
                                    until the volume is unlocked. To be 
                                    successful, the file used to lock   
                                    the volume must also be the only    
                                    opened file on the volume.          

  FILE_SYSTEM_CONTROL               Anytime. If the operation is        
  (MOUNT_VOLUME)                    successful then a new device object 
                                    for the volume is created and the   
                                    volume is considered mounted and    
                                    not locked.                         

  FILE_SYSTEM_CONTROL               Only after a successful CREATE and  
  (QUERY_INFO_FILE_SYSTEM)          then only on an opened file.        

  FILE_SYSTEM_CONTROL               Only after a successful CREATE and  
  (SET_INFO_FILE_SYSTEM)            then only on an opened file.        

  FILE_SYSTEM_CONTROL               Only after a successful CREATE and  
  (UNLOCK_VOLUME)                   then only on a opened file. The     
                                    file system must handle the         
                                    situation where the user is         
                                    attempting to unlock a volume that  
                                    is not locked. If successful this   
                                    operation unlocks a previously      
                                    locked volume so that other creates 
                                    using the volume can now succeed.   

  FILE_SYSTEM_CONTROL               Only after a successful             
  (VERIFY_VOLUME)                   MOUNT_VOLUME and then only on a     
                                    mounted volume.                     

  LOCK_CONTROL                      Only after a successful CREATE and  
  (LOCK)                            then only on an opened file. If     
                                    successful this operation locks a   
                                    range of bytes within a file. The   
                                    locks remain in affect until they   
                                    are explicitly unlocked or the file 
                                    is closed.                          

  LOCK_CONTROL                      Only after a successful CREATE and  
  (UNLOCK_ALL)                      then only on an opened file. The    
                                    file system must handle the         
                                    situation where an unlock is        
                                    received even though there are no   
                                    outstanding locks for that user.    

  LOCK_CONTROL                      Only after a successful CREATE and  
  (UNLOCK_SINGLE)                   then only on an opened file. The    
                                    file system must handle the         
                                    situation where an unlock is        
                                    received even though there is not a 
                                    corresponding lock.                 

  QUERY_ACL                         Only after a successful CREATE and  
                                    then only on an opened file.        

  QUERY_EA                          Only after a successful CREATE and  
                                    then only on an opened file.        

  QUERY_INFORMATION                 Only after a successful CREATE and  
                                    then only on an opened file.        

  QUERY_VOLUME_INFORMATION          Only after a successful CREATE and  
                                    then only on an opened file.        

  READ                              Only after a successful CREATE and  
                                    then only on an opened file.        

  SET_ACL                           Only after a successful CREATE and  
                                    then only on an opened file.        

  SET_EA                            Only after a successful CREATE and  
                                    then only on an opened file.        

  SET_INFORMATION                   Only after a successful CREATE and  
                                    then only on an opened file.        

  SET_NEW_SIZE                      Only after a successful CREATE and  
                                    then only on an opened file.        

  SET_VOLUME_INFORMATION            Only after a successful CREATE and  
                                    then only on an opened file.        

  WRITE                             Only after a successful CREATE and  
                                    then only on an opened file.        
  --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- --

2.3 Keyboard Driver IRPs

The set of possible IRPs that can be sent to the Keyboard driver are:

  --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- --
  IRP Function                      When sent                           

  CLOSE                             Anytime.                            

  CREATE                            Anytime.                            

  DEVICE_CONTROL                    Anytime.                            
  (...)                                                                 

  QUERY_INFORMATION                 Anytime.                            

  READ                              Anytime.                            

  SET_INFORMATION                   Anytime.                            

  WRITE                             Anytime.                            
  --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- --

2.4 Mouse Driver IRPs

The set of possible IRPs that can be sent to the Mouse driver are:

  --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- --
  IRP Function                      When sent                           

  CLOSE                             Anytime.                            

  CREATE                            Anytime.                            

  DEVICE_CONTROL                    Anytime.                            
  (...)                                                                 

  QUERY_INFORMATION                 Anytime.                            

  READ                              Anytime.                            

  SET_INFORMATION                   Anytime.                            

  WRITE                             Anytime.                            
  --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- --

2.5 Network Drivers IRPs

The set of possible IRPs that can be sent to the Network drivers are:

  --------------------------------- -------------------------------------
  IRP Function                      When sent

  --------------------------------- -------------------------------------

/* This table needs to be filled in */

2.6 Sound Driver IRPs

The set of possible IRPs that can be sent to the Sound driver are:

  --------------------------------- -------------------------------------
  IRP Function                      When sent

  --------------------------------- -------------------------------------

/* This table needs to be filled in */

2.7 Tape Driver IRPs

The set of possible IRPs that can be sent to the Tape driver are:

  --------------------------------- -------------------------------------
  IRP Function                      When sent

  --------------------------------- -------------------------------------

/* This table needs to be filled in */

2.8 Terminal Driver IRPs

The set of possible IRPs that can be sent to the Terminal driver are:

  --------------------------------- -------------------------------------
  IRP Function                      When sent

  --------------------------------- -------------------------------------

/* This table needs to be filled in */

2.9 Video Driver IRPs

The set of possible IRPs that can be sent to the Video driver are:

  --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- --
  IRP Function                      When sent                           

  CLOSE                             Anytime.                            

  CREATE                            Anytime.                            

  DEVICE_CONTROL                    Anytime.                            
  (...)                                                                 

  QUERY_INFORMATION                 Anytime.                            

  READ                              Anytime.                            

  SET_INFORMATION                   Anytime.                            

  WRITE                             Anytime.                            
  --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- --

 3. IRP Function Descriptions

This section describes the input parameters and semantics for each IRP
function code. It also discusses the interactions between the parameters
and lists possible return status codes.

The parameter descriptions list all the fields that are used within the
IRP by the operation being described. Each parameter is either Read
(i.e., used as input to the operation), Set (i.e., used as output for
the operation), or Ignored. To help distinguish the parameters we will
also use the two terms IrpFlags and FunctionFlags to denote the flags
field of the IRP header and the I/O stack location respectively.

In the description of the return status codes we do not include generic
values such as STATUS_PENDING or STATUS_INVALID_PARAMETER which can be
returned for any IRP. We also do not describe values that can be
returned by a lower level device drivers such as STATUS_PARITY_ERROR.

3.1 Close

The close function is used to close a previously opened file or
directory. Its two input parameters are a device object and an IRP. The
device object parameter points to a volume previously mounted by the
Device Driver and is where the file opened file exists. The IRP contains
the close function parameters (and are listed below).

Besides closing the file, this function will optionally deletes the file
based upon the disposition specified by the caller (See the
SET_INFORMATION operation). If this is the last file object with the
file opened and the disposition is delete on close then the file is
removed from the on-disk structure.

Close (
IN PDEVICE_OBJECT DeviceObject,
IN PIRP Irp
);

Parameters within the IRP:

  ---------------------------------- ----------------------------------- --
  Parameter type and name            Description                         

  PMDL                               Ignored.                            
  MdlAddress                                                             

  ULONG                              Ignored.                            
  IrpFlags                                                               

  STRING                             Ignored.                            
  FileObject->FileName                                                   

  ULONG                              Ignored.                            
  FileObject->RelatedFileObject                                          

  PVOID                              Read and Set. The driver uses this  
  FileObject->FsContext              field to retrieve any private data  
                                     (established by the CREATE          
                                     function) that needs to be          
                                     processed in order to close the     
                                     file. It is set to NULL upon return 
                                     from the close function.            

  PVOID                              Read and Set. The driver uses this  
  FileObject->FsContext2             field to retrieve any private data  
                                     (established by the CREATE          
                                     function) that needs to be          
                                     processed in order to close the     
                                     file. It is set to NULL upon return 
                                     from the close function.            

  PVOID                              Set. The close function must set    
  FileObject->SectionObjectPointer   this field to NULL.                 

  IO_STATUS_BLOCK                    Set. This receives the final return 
  IoStatus                           status of the operation. The        
                                     possible return status values are   
                                     listed later.                       

  PEPROCESS                          Ignored.                            
  AlternateProcess                                                       

  KPROCESSOR_MODE                    Ignored.                            
  RequestorMode                                                          

  PVOID                              Ignored.                            
  SystemBuffer                                                           

  PIO_STATUS_BLOCK                   Ignored.                            
  UserIosb                                                               

  PKEVENT                            Ignored.                            
  UserEvent                                                              

  LARGE_INTEGER                      Ignored.                            
  AllocationSize                                                         

  PVOID                              Ignored.                            
  UserBuffer                                                             
  ---------------------------------- ----------------------------------- --

Parameters within the IRP Stack:

  --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- --
  Parameter type and name           Description                         

  UCHAR                             Read. Must be equal to              
  MajorFunction                     IRP_MJ_CLOSE.                       

  UCHAR                             Ignored.                            
  MinorFunction                                                         

  UCHAR                             Ignored.                            
  FunctionFlags                                                         

  UCHAR                             Ignored.                            
  Control                                                               
  --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- --

Iosb Return Status and Information:

The following status codes are used to complete the CLOSE function.

  --------------------------------- -------------------------------------
  Return status followed by         Description
  information field of IOSB         

  STATUS_SUCCESS                    Indicates that the opened file has
  Ignored                           been closed.
  --------------------------------- -------------------------------------

 3.2 Create

The create function is used to create or open a file or a directory. Its
two input parameters are a device object and an IRP. The device object
parameter points to a volume previously mounted by the Device Driver and
is where the file will exist. The IRP contains the create function
parameters (and are listed below).

Create (
IN PDEVICE_OBJECT DeviceObject,
IN PIRP Irp
);

Parameters within the IRP:

  ---------------------------------- ----------------------------------- --
  Parameter type and name            Description                         

  PMDL                               Ignored.                            
  MdlAddress                                                             

  ULONG                              Ignored.                            
  IrpFlags                                                               

  STRING                             Read. This is the name of the file  
  FileObject->FileName               being opened.                       

  ULONG                              Read. This field is used for path   
  FileObject->RelatedFileObject      relative file names.                

                                     If it is null then the file name is 
                                     relative to the root of the volume  
                                     (e.g., "\CONFIG.SYS" is the name of 
                                     the configuration file located in   
                                     root directory).                    

                                     If is it not null then it points to 
                                     a previously opened file object     
                                     representing a directory on the     
                                     volume, and the file name is        
                                     relative to the specified directory 
                                     (e.g., if the related file object   
                                     is "\NT\SDK" the file name can be   
                                     "INC\NTIOAPI.H"). Note that path    
                                     relative file names do not begin    
                                     with a backslash.                   

  PVOID                              Set. This is used by the Device     
  FileObject->FsContext              Driver to store file object         
                                     specific information that can be    
                                     retrieved later when the driver is  
                                     called to perform subsequent        
                                     operations on the file.             

                                     The FAT file system stores in this  
                                     field a pointer to an internal File 
                                     Control Block (FCB) structure.      

  PVOID                              Set. This is used by the Device     
  FileObject->FsContext2             Driver to store file object         
                                     specific information that can be    
                                     retrieved later when the driver is  
                                     called to perform subsequent        
                                     operations on the file.             

                                     The FAT file system only uses this  
                                     field for directories. It is a      
                                     pointer to an internal Context      
                                     Control Block (CCB) structure.      

  PVOID                              Set. It is set to the longword      
  FileObject->SectionObjectPointer   context for the file. It is not     
                                     used for directories. For every     
                                     opened file the driver allocates a  
                                     single longword of context for      
                                     exclusive use by the memory         
                                     management system. All file objects 
                                     that denote the same file point to  
                                     the same longword context.          

                                     In FAT this is done by reserving a  
                                     longword field in the FCB and       
                                     having each section object pointer  
                                     point to this field.                

  IO_STATUS_BLOCK                    Set. This receives the final return 
  IoStatus                           status of the operation. The        
                                     possible return status values are   
                                     listed later.                       

  PEPROCESS                          Ignored.                            
  AlternateProcess                                                       

  KPROCESSOR_MODE                    Read. This is the mode of the       
  RequestorMode                      requestor. It is used for to help   
                                     decide if the requestor has the     
                                     proper access rights to the file.   

                                     /**** We also need to pass in the   
                                     token of the requestor ****/        

  PVOID                              Read. This field is only used if    
  SystemBuffer                       the file is being created and then  
                                     it only specifies the optional      
                                     extended attributes for the file.   
                                     If the field is null the file will  
                                     not be created with extended        
                                     attributes. The create operation    
                                     must complete with an error if      
                                     there are any problems with the     
                                     extended attributes.                

                                     For FAT there is a 64K limit to the 
                                     size of the extended attributes (as 
                                     packed on the disk). The create     
                                     operation will complete with an     
                                     error if this limit is exceeded.    

  PIO_STATUS_BLOCK                   Ignored.                            
  UserIosb                                                               

  PKEVENT                            Ignored.                            
  UserEvent                                                              

  LARGE_INTEGER                      Read. This field is only used if    
  AllocationSize                     the file is being created and is    
                                     ignored for directories and for     
                                     open operations. It specifies the   
                                     initial file allocation in bytes to 
                                     allocate to the file. This is not   
                                     the same as the end-of-file         
                                     location.                           

  PVOID                              Ignored.                            
  UserBuffer                                                             
  ---------------------------------- ----------------------------------- --

Parameters within the IRP Stack:

+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| P |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
| a |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| r |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| a |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
| m |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| t |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| r |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| t |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
| y |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| p |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| a |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| n |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| d |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| n |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| a |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| m |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| U |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
| C |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| H |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| M |                           | M |                           |   |   |   |
| a |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
| j |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| o |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| r |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
| F |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| u |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| n |                           | q |                           |   |   |   |
| c |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
| t |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| i |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
| o |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| n |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | P |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | M |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | J |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | C |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| U |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
| C |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
| H |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
| M |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| i |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| n |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| o |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| r |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| F |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| u |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| n |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| c |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| t |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| i |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| o |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| n |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| U |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
| C |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
| H |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
| F |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| u |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| n |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| c |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| t |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| i |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| o |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| n |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| F |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| l |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| a |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| g |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| s |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| U |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
| C |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
| H |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
| C |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| o |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| n |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| t |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| r |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| o |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| l |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| U |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| N |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| G |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| D |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
| s |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| i |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| r |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| d |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
| c |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| c |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
| s |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
| s |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | k |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | q |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | k |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | v |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | : |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | C |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | O |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | N |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | O |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | W |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | C |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | W |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | O |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | W |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | N |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | S |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | Y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | N |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | C |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | H |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | O |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | N |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | Z |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | W |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | P |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | P |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | N |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | W |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | X |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | C |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | U |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | B |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | U |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | S |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | W |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | B |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | U |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | S |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | k |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | v |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | : |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | C |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | O |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | N |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | O |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | W |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | C |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | W |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | O |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | W |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | N |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | S |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | Y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | N |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | C |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | H |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | O |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | N |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | Z |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | S |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | C |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | O |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | Y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | S |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | U |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | B |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | C |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | O |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | Y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | W |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | V |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | S |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | C |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | H |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | B |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | U |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | S |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | W |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | B |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | U |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | S |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | v |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | ' |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | v |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | q |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | ' |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | q |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| U |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| N |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| G |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
| p |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
| t |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| i |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| o |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
| n |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| s |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | N |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | v |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | : |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| F |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| C |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| T |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| D |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
| C |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| T |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
| Y |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| F |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
| P |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| N |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
| D |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| C |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| T |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| Y |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | x |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| F |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
| W |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
| T |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| T |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| H |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | v |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| U |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| G |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| H |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | q |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | j |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| F |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
| S |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| Q |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
| U |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
| N |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| T |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           | v |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| N |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| Y |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | q |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | j |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| F |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
| M |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| P |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
| P |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
| D |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           | v |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | q |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | j |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| F |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
| D |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| S |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
| B |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| C |                           | v |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| C |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| H |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
| N |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| G |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | q |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | j |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| F |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
| S |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| Y |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| N |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| C |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| H |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| N |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| U |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| S |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| T |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| F |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
| S |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| Y |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| N |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| C |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| H |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| N |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| U |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| S |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| N |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| N |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| T |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| F |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| C |                           | O |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
| T |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| T |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
| C |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| N |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| N |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
| C |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
| T |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | k |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| N |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | / |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | * |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | * |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | * |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | * |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | * |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | * |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | * |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | * |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | / |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| F |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| S |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
| U |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| P |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
| S |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| D |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| < |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| < |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
| 2 |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| 4 |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| [ |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| 2 |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
| ] |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | x |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | x |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| F |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| C |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| T |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| < |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| < |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| 2 |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| 4 |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | x |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | x |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| F |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
| P |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| N |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| < |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
| < |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| 2 |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| 4 |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | x |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | x |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| F |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
| P |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| N |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| F |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| < |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| < |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| 2 |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| 4 |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | x |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | x |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| / |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| * |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| * |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| * |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| * |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| W |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| n |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| d |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| a |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| l |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| i |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| s |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| t |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| o |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| f |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| t |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| h |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| i |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| l |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| l |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| g |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| a |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| l |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| f |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| l |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| a |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| g |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| c |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| o |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| m |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| b |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| i |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| n |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| a |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| t |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| i |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| o |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| n |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| s |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| , |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| a |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| n |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| d |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| s |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| t |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| a |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| t |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| t |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| h |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| a |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| t |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| t |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| h |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| y |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| w |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| i |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| l |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| l |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| n |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| v |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| r |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| b |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| s |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| n |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| i |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| n |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| a |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| n |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| P |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| * |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| * |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| * |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| * |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
| / |                           |   |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| U |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
| S |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| H |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| T |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
| F |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
| i |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| l |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| t |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| t |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
| r |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| i |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| b |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
| u |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| t |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| s |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | O |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | S |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | x |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | : |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | B |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | U |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | O |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | N |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | Y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | B |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | U |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | H |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | D |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | N |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | B |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | U |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | S |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | Y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | S |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | M |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | B |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | U |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | C |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | H |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | V |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | B |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | U |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | C |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | O |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | N |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | O |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | B |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | U |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | N |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | O |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | M |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | B |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | U |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | _ |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | N |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | O |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | M |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | L |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | v |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | ( |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | ) |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| U |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
| S |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| H |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| T |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
| S |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
| h |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| a |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| r |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| c |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
| c |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| s |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
| s |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | x |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | F |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | x |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | v |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | v |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | : |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| F |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| S |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
| H |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| D |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| F |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| S |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
| H |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| W |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| T |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | w |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| F |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| S |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
| H |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| D |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| T |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| F |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
| I |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| S |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
| H |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
| _ |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| R |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| N |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| A |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
| M |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | I |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
|   | The test that a user      |   |                           |   |   |   |
|   | requesting shared read,   |   |                           |   |   |   |
|   | write, or delete can be   |   |                           |   |   |   |
|   | done by the Device Driver |   |                           |   |   |   |
|   | during the create         |   |                           |   |   |   |
|   | operation (i.e., a user   |   |                           |   |   |   |
|   | is allowed read access to |   |                           |   |   |   |
|   | a shared file if the      |   |                           |   |   |   |
|   | shared access flags       |   |                           |   |   |   |
|   | match, shared read is     |   |                           |   |   |   |
|   | specified, and the file's |   |                           |   |   |   |
|   | security protection       |   |                           |   |   |   |
|   | allows for read access).  |   |                           |   |   |   |
|   | The test for rename       |   |                           |   |   |   |
|   | access must be deferred   |   |                           |   |   |   |
|   | until the a rename IRP is |   |                           |   |   |   |
|   | processed (see the Set    |   |                           |   |   |   |
|   | Information IRP           |   |                           |   |   |   |
|   | description).             |   |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+
| U |                           | R |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
| O |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| N |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
| G |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
| E |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
| a |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
| L |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
| e |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
| n |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
| g |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
| t |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
| h |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | g |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | l |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | T |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | z |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | n |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | E |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | A |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | c |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | d |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | ( |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | , |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | i |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | z |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | o |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | h |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | y |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | s |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | b |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | u |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | f |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | p |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | a |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | m |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | t |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | e |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | r |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | ) |                           |   |   |   |
|   |                           | . |                           |   |   |   |
+---+---------------------------+---+---------------------------+---+---+---+

Iosb Return Status and Information:

The following status codes are used to complete the CREATE function.

  --------------------------------- -------------------------------- -- --
  Return status followed by         Description                         
  information field of IOSB                                             

  STATUS_SUCCESS                    Indicates that an existing file     
  FILE_OPENED                       has been successfully located       
                                    and opened.                         

  STATUS_SUCCESS                    Indicates that an existing file     
  FILE_SUPERSEDED                   has been successfully located       
                                    and superseded.                     

  STATUS_SUCCESS                    Indicates that an existing file     
  FILE_CREATED                      (of the same name) does not         
                                    exist and that a new file has       
                                    been successfully created.          

  STATUS_ACCESS_DENIED              Indicates that because of           
  Ignored                           protection on the file, parent      
                                    directory, or volume access has     
                                    been denied to the file. This       
                                    can also occur if the caller        
                                    specified options or share          
                                    access flags are not compatible     
                                    with either the file or the         
                                    previous share access that it       
                                    was opened with.                    

  STATUS_OBJECT_NAME_INVALID        Indicates that the last name in     
  Ignored                           the object's file name field        
                                    does not contain a syntactically    
                                    valid name (e.g., it's too long     
                                    or contains invalid characters).    

  STATUS_OBJECT_NAME_NOT_FOUND      Indicates that the last name in     
  Ignored                           the object's file name field is     
                                    not the name of an existing         
                                    file.                               

  STATUS_OBJECT_PATH_INVALID        Indicates that a name within the    
  Ignored                           path part of the object's file      
                                    name field does not contain a       
                                    syntactically valid name.           

  STATUS_OBJECT_PATH_NOT_FOUND      Indicates that a name within the    
  Ignored                           path part of the object's file      
                                    name field does not contain the     
                                    name of an existing directory.      

  STATUS_DISK_FULL_ERROR            Indicates that because the disk     
  Ignored                           is full the file cannot be          
                                    created. This can occur when        
                                    disk space cannot be allocated      
                                    for the directory entry, file       
                                    node, or the extended               
                                    attributes.                         

  STATUS_DISK_FULL_WARNING          Indicates that the file has been    
  FILE_SUPERSEDED                   superseded but because the disk     
                                    is full the file cannot be given    
                                    the user specified file             
                                    allocation size.                    

  STATUS_DISK_FULL_WARNING          Indictes that the file has been     
  FILE_CREATED                      created but because the disk is     
                                    full the file cannot be given       
                                    ths user specified file             
                                    allocation size.                    

  STATUS_EA_INVALID                 Indicates that the EA structure     
  Ignored                           passed into this function is        
                                    syntactically invalid.              
  --------------------------------- -------------------------------- -- --

 3.3 Device Control

3.4 Directory Control(Notify Change Directory)

3.5 Directory Control(Query Directory)

3.6 File System Control(Dismount Volume)

3.7 File System Control(Lock Volume)

 3.8 File System Control(Mount Volume)

The mount function is used mount a new disk volume. Its two input
parameters are a device object and an IRP. The device object parameter
points to the Device Drivers original device object that is created when
the driver is initialized.

The mount operation can handle mounting new volume, and remounting a
previously mounted volume. The parameter description that follows
assumes that it is processing a new volume. At the end of the
description we cover the updating required for the remount case.

Mount (
IN PDEVICE_OBJECT DeviceObject,
IN PIRP Irp
);

Parameters within the IRP:

  --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- --
  Parameter type and name           Description                         

  PMDL                              Ignored.                            
  MdlAddress                                                            

  ULONG                             Ignored.                            
  IrpFlags                                                              

  PFILE_OBJECT                      Ignored.                            
  FileObject                                                            

  IO_STATUS_BLOCK                   Set. This receives the final return 
  IoStatus                          status of the operation. The        
                                    possible return status values are   
                                    listed later.                       

  PEPROCESS                         Ignored.                            
  AlternateProcess                                                      

  KPROCESSOR_MODE                   Ignored.                            
  RequestorMode                                                         

  PVOID                             Ignored.                            
  SystemBuffer                                                          

  PIO_STATUS_BLOCK                  Ignored.                            
  UserIosb                                                              

  PKEVENT                           Ignored.                            
  UserEvent                                                             

  LARGE_INTEGER                     Ignored.                            
  AllocationSize                                                        

  PVOID                             Ignored.                            
  UserBuffer                                                            
  --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- --

Parameters within the IRP Stack:

  --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- --
  Parameter type and name           Description                         

  UCHAR                             Read. Must be equal to              
  MajorFunction                     IRP_MJ_FILE_SYSTEM_CONTROL.         

  UCHAR                             Read. Must be equal to              
  MinorFunction                     IRP_MN_MOUNT_VOLUME.                

  UCHAR                             Ignored.                            
  FunctionFlags                                                         

  UCHAR                             Ignored.                            
  Control                                                               

  PDEVICE_OBJECT                    Set. If the mount is successful     
  Vpb->DeviceObject                 this field is set the point to the  
                                    newly allocated device object for   
                                    the volume. If the mount is         
                                    unsuccessful or this is a remount   
                                    then this field is not updated.     

  ULONG                             Set. If the mount is successful     
  Vpb->DeviceObject->Flags          then the flag DO_DIRECT_IO is set   
                                    in the newly created device objects 
                                    flags field. Setting this flag      
                                    allows the Device Driver to receive 
                                    unbuffered I/O requests for this    
                                    volume.                             

  ULONG                             Set. If the mount is successful     
  Vpb->SerialNumber                 this field is set to the serial     
                                    number found on the volume. It is   
                                    ignored if the mount is             
                                    unsuccessful or in the case of a    
                                    remount.                            

  CHAR                              Set. If the mount is successful     
  Vpb->VolumeName[20]               this field is set to the label      
                                    found on the volume. If the volume  
                                    does not have a label then this     
                                    field should be set to all spaces.  

                                    For FAT the volume label, if        
                                    present, is found in the root       
                                    directory as a special dirent.      

  PDEVICE_OBJECT                    Read. This is the device object     
  DeviceObject                      that the Device Driver is to use    
                                    when formulating IRPs to read or    
                                    write to the volume. It is also     
                                    called the target device object. If 
                                    the volume is mounted successful    
                                    this value must be remembered so    
                                    the driver can handle subsequent    
                                    requests to the volume.             
  --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- --

Iosb Return Status and Information:

The following status codes are used to complete the MOUNT function.

  --------------------------------- -------------------------------------
  Return status followed by         Description
  information field of IOSB         

  STATUS_SUCCESS                    Indicates that the volume has been
  Ignored                           successful mounted.

  STATUS_WRONG_VOLUME               Indicates that the volume cannot be
  Ignored                           mounted either because it does not
                                    recognize the on-disk structure or
                                    the on-disk structure has been
                                    currupted.
  --------------------------------- -------------------------------------

Mounting a new volume:

The following figure shows the major I/O structures after processing a
successful mount request.

  +---------------+<-------+
  Irp->DeviceObject - - -> | | |
  +---------------+ |
  |
  +---------------+<----+ |
  Irp->Vpb - - - - - - -> | | | |
  | DeviceObject |--+ | |
  | SerialNumber | | | |
  | VolumeName | | | |
  +---------------+ | | |
  | | |
  +---------------+<-+ | |
  | Newly | | |
  | Allocated | | |
  | Device | | |
  | Object | | |
  |...............| | |
  | | | |
  | Device Driver |-----+ |
  | Private Data |--------+
  | |
  +---------------+
  The I/O structures after a mount operation

In the preceding figure the newly allocated device object has
immediately following it a Device Driver private data record that is for
used only by the driver. This technique should be used in the driver to
keep track of the VPB and the device object where it is to send its read
and write requests. It should also be used to link together all of the
mounted volumes serviced by the driver.

Remounting a volume:

By using the device driver private data record to maintain a link of all
mounted volumes a Device Driver can determine if a mount request for a
volume matches a previously mounted volume (They match if the both
volume have the same serial number and volume label). The following
figure shows the major I/O structure after processing a remount.

  +---------------+<-------+
  Irp->DeviceObject -> | | |
  +---------------+ |
  |
  +---------------+ |
  Irp->Vpb - - - - -> | | |
  | RealDevice |--------|----> +---+
  +---------------+ | +-> | |
  | | | |
  +---------------+<----+ | | | |
  | | | | | +---+
  | RealDevice |-----|--|--+
  | DeviceObject |--+ | |
  +---------------+ | | |
  | | |
  +---------------+<-+ | |
  | Previously | | |
  | Allocated | | |
  | Device | | |
  | Object | | |
  |...............| | |
  | | | |
  | Device Driver |-----+ |
  | Private Data |--------+
  | |
  +---------------+
  The I/O structures after a remount operation

The remount operation does not allocate any new structures, instead it
it performs the following operations:

o The Device Drivers Private Data pointer to the target device object is
changed to point to the new target device object.

o The RealDevice field of the Vpb that we previously mounted is set to
the RealDevice field of the new Vpb that was passed in as a parameter in
the IRP.

o The Irp->Vpb is deallocated from pool by the device driver, and
complete the mount request with STATUS_SUCCESS.

 3.9 File System Control(Query Information File System)

3.10 File System Control(Set Information File System)

3.11 File System Control(Unlock Volume)

3.12 File System Control(Verify Volume)

3.13 Internal Device Control

3.14 Lock Control(Lock)

3.15 Lock Control(Unlock All)

3.16 Lock Control(Unlock Single)

3.17 Query Acl

3.18 Query Ea

3.19 Query Information

3.20 Query Volume Information

3.21 Read

3.22 Read Terminal

3.23 Set Acl

3.24 Set Ea

3.25 Set Information

3.26 Set New Size

3.27 Set Volume Information

3.28 Write

Revision History

Original Draft 1.0, December 15, 1989

[1] For clarity we will use the term Device Driver to refer to both
Device Drivers and File systems.

[2] To test if the flags FILE_SUPERSEDE, FILE_OPEN, FILE_CREATE, and
FILE_OPEN_IF are in the options parameter the driver must first shift
the flag 24 bits to the left and then do the test (e.g., Option &
(FILE_SUPERSEDE << 24)).
